README.md, before:

# Tabular Data `Anomaly-Detector` Template Module

This [module](https://docs.viam.com/registry/#modular-resources) implements the [`rdk:component:base` API](/components/base/#api) in an `anomaly-detector` model.
This repo can be used as a starter kit to implement your personal real time anomaly detection using a machine learning model trained with your data.
This is an advanced topic and Viam basics such as configuring machines, components and services are expected to be known! If you are not familiar with these topics yet, I recommend to start with this [beginner tutorial](https://docs.viam.com/how-tos/configure/) first and then come back.

## Requirements

If you haven't done so, I recommend to familiarize with the topic of creating your own Viam resources. You can find the related documentation here: [Create Your Own Modules](https://docs.viam.com/registry/#create-your-own-modules).

To create your own development setup follow these steps (tested on OSX):

1. Install `viam-server` on your machine [Install Guide](https://docs.viam.com/installation/)
2. Clone this repository to your machine
3. In app.viam.com navigate to the JSON configuration of your machine
4. Add this configuration into the `modules` array:

```json
{
  "type": "registry",
  "name": "viam-labs_onnx-cpu",
  "module_id": "viam-labs:onnx-cpu",
  "version": "0.1.4"
},
{
  "type": "local",
  "name": "local-module",
  "executable_path": "/<YOUR PATH>/anomaly-detector/run.sh"
}
```

5. Add this configuration into the `components` array:

```json
{
  "name": "fake-sensor",
  "namespace": "rdk",
  "type": "sensor",
  "model": "fake",
  "attributes": {}
},
{
  "name": "sensor",
  "namespace": "rdk",
  "type": "sensor",
  "model": "viam-soleng:sensor:anomaly",
  "attributes": {
    "sensor": "fake-sensor",
    "model": "mlmodel",
    "queue": 3
  }
}
```

7. Add this configuration to the `services` array:

```json
{
  "name": "mlmodel",
  "namespace": "rdk",
  "type": "mlmodel",
  "model": "viam-labs:mlmodel:onnx-cpu",
  "attributes": {
    "model_path": "/<YOUR PATH>/anomaly-detector/model/sample.onnx",
    "label_path": ""
  }
}
```

6. Save the configuration and start the machine

## Configure your `anomaly-detector` sensor

### Attributes

The following attributes are available for `<INSERT MODEL TRIPLET>` <INSERT API NAME>s:

| Name     | Type   | Required?    | Description                                             |
| -------- | ------ | ------------ | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| `sensor` | string | **Required** | The sensor you want to apply the ml model to            |
| `model`  | string | **Required** | The ml model to be used                                 |
| `queue`  | int    | **Required** | Queue size to calculate the rolling average, must be >1 |

### Next steps

Let us know if you are interested in this topic, have questions, struggle with setting it up, enhancing it etc.. We are happy to help!

## Troubleshooting

N/A

Commit message:

ML training script added (#1)
* training script added

* readme added

README.md, after:

# Tabular Data `Anomaly-Detector` Template Module

This [module](https://docs.viam.com/registry/#modular-resources) implements the [`rdk:component:base` API](/components/base/#api) in an `anomaly-detector` model.
This repo can be used as a starter kit to implement your personal real time anomaly detection using a machine learning model trained with your data.
This is an advanced topic and Viam basics such as configuring machines, components and services are expected to be known! If you are not familiar with these topics yet, I recommend to start with this [beginner tutorial](https://docs.viam.com/how-tos/configure/) first and then come back.

## Requirements

If you haven't done so, I recommend to familiarize with the topic of creating your own Viam resources. You can find the related documentation here: [Create Your Own Modules](https://docs.viam.com/registry/#create-your-own-modules).

To create your own development setup follow these steps (tested on OSX):

1. Install `viam-server` on your machine [Install Guide](https://docs.viam.com/installation/)
2. Clone this repository to your machine
3. In app.viam.com navigate to the JSON configuration of your machine
4. Add this configuration into the `modules` array:

```json
{
  "type": "registry",
  "name": "viam-labs_onnx-cpu",
  "module_id": "viam-labs:onnx-cpu",
  "version": "0.1.4"
},
{
  "type": "local",
  "name": "local-module",
  "executable_path": "/<YOUR PATH>/anomaly-detector/run.sh"
}
```

5. Add this configuration into the `components` array:

```json
{
  "name": "fake-sensor",
  "namespace": "rdk",
  "type": "sensor",
  "model": "fake",
  "attributes": {}
},
{
  "name": "sensor",
  "namespace": "rdk",
  "type": "sensor",
  "model": "viam-soleng:sensor:anomaly",
  "attributes": {
    "sensor": "fake-sensor",
    "model": "mlmodel",
    "queue": 3
  }
}
```

7. Add this configuration to the `services` array:

```json
{
  "name": "mlmodel",
  "namespace": "rdk",
  "type": "mlmodel",
  "model": "viam-labs:mlmodel:onnx-cpu",
  "attributes": {
    "model_path": "/<YOUR PATH>/anomaly-detector/model/sample.onnx",
    "label_path": ""
  }
}
```

6. Save the configuration and start the machine

## Configure your `anomaly-detector` sensor

### Attributes

The following attributes are available for `<INSERT MODEL TRIPLET>` <INSERT API NAME>s:

| Name     | Type   | Required?    | Description                                             |
| -------- | ------ | ------------ | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| `sensor` | string | **Required** | The sensor you want to apply the ml model to            |
| `model`  | string | **Required** | The ml model to be used                                 |
| `queue`  | int    | **Required** | Queue size to calculate the rolling average, must be >1 |

### Next steps

To train your own model with your data we have created a sample training script which should be easy to tune towards your particular data set: [Model Training](training/README.md)

Let us know if you are interested in this topic, have questions, struggle with setting it up, enhancing it etc.. We are happy to help!

## Troubleshooting

N/A
