training/README.md, before:

# Train Your Own Model

## Prerequisits

If you haven't done so, make sure you have installed all required dependencies:

```sh
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

To be able to connect to the Viam cloud backend, create a `.env` file in the project root `../` with the following variables and add your specific values:

```sh
API_KEY_ID=
API_KEY=
ORGANIZATION_ID=
```

## Train Your Model

This script requires tuning towards your data! I will add hints at a later point in time to make it easier to adapt it.
You should be easily able to figure it out yourself however in the meantime. Otherwise feel free to reach out.

The script works in the following way:

1. Connects to the Viam cloud backend using an MQL aggregation pipeline to download sensor data and stores it in a local csv file
2. It loads the CSV file, applies some type conversions (timestamp to date) and removes null values
3. Calculates additional information such as the rolling mean and also adds the previous value to each observation
4. Trains an `sklearn isolation forest model` and converts it to `onnx` so we can run it with `viam-server`
5. Takes the training dataset and runs inference on it -> prints the results to command line

Commit message:

Viam Custom Training Script (#4)
Added a Viam custom training job script which trains the isolation forest model with collected data from the Viam cloud backend using the MongoDB MQL API.

training/README.md, after:

# Viam Custom Training Script Workflow

This folder contains a ML model training script which is used to train an isolation forest model with data stored in the Viam cloud backend.
The model is then uploaded into the Viam Registry and is ready to be deployed onto a Viam machine running `viam-server`.

## Create Custom Training Script Bundle (tar.gz)

The Viam custom training script workflow requires a Python source distribution.
To create this tarball change into the `training` folder and run the python command:

```shell
cd training
python setup.py sdist
```

## Upload Custom Training Script

The tarball can then be uploaded into the Viam Registry using the following viam CLI commmand (You will have to be authenticated: `viam login`):

```shell
viam training-script upload --path=dist/train_if-0.1.tar.gz --org-id=< YOUR ORG ID > --script-name="IsolationForest"
```

## Submit a Custom Training Job

Once the training script is uploaded to the Viam Registry, you can run the training process with the following command:

```shell
viam train submit custom from-registry --dataset-id=< DATASET ID - NOT USED BUT REQUIRED > --org-id=< ORG ID > --model-name="isolation_forest" --script-name="< ORG ID >":IsolationForest" --version=< SCRIPT VERSION FROM REGISTRY >
```

## Get Training Job Logs

Once you have successfully submitted the custom training job, you can access log information with the following command:

```shell
viam train get --job-id=< JOB ID >
```
